Add blog post: LibrePCB 0.1.7 Released (#61)
LibrePCB/librepcb-website: content/blog/2022-10-03_release_0.1.7.md

---
date: 2022-10-03
title: LibrePCB 0.1.7 Released
author: U. Bruhin
---

Finally it's time again to announce a new release -- LibrePCB 0.1.7 brings
several new features and a lot of usability improvements! This might be the
last release of the 0.1.x series as LibrePCB 0.2.x development is ongoing
as well. But, never say never ;-)

***Note for macOS users:** Our official binaries do not run on macOS 10 anymore.
You need macOS 11 Big Sur or later (or compile LibrePCB from sources).*

### Highlights

#### Measure Tool ([#995](https://github.com/LibrePCB/LibrePCB/pull/995))

Measuring distances in the footprint- and board editors is one of the features

> I have been asking for many times. For good reasons, since it is very useful

Reviewer: This phrasing is a bit strange. Have you _been asked for_ (in the context of LibrePCB) or have you wanted this feature yourself when using other EDA tools? For LibrePCB, you don't need to ask for a feature, you can just implement it 😄

Author: Hm :thinking: People asked me for keyboard shortcuts or complained about the lack of it. Not I was asking about them. Does the sentence now makes sense or not? :D

Reviewer: Ah, then change it to "I have been asked for many times" 🙂

Author: That sounds much better indeed! :smiley: Thanks for the hint! -> fixed

possible to import whole EAGLE libraries (`*.lbr` with XML format of EAGLE 6
or later) very easily:

[![EAGLE Import Wizard](/img/eagle_library_import.gif)](/img/eagle_library_import.gif)

The import has been tested with several libraries of various EAGLE versions,
but we can't guarantee that it's working properly with any `*.lbr` file.
Please don't hesitate to
[open an issue](https://github.com/LibrePCB/LibrePCB/issues/new/choose) if
you experience an incompatibility.

&nbsp;

#### Improved, Configurable Keyboard Shortcuts ([#986](https://github.com/LibrePCB/LibrePCB/pull/986), [#987](https://github.com/LibrePCB/LibrePCB/pull/987), [#988](https://github.com/LibrePCB/LibrePCB/pull/988))

Keyboard shortcuts were another weak point of LibrePCB which I have been asked
for many times. Most tools and actions did not have a shortcut at all,
configuration was not possible and there was no overview about the available
shortcuts.

This release massively changes that situation. There are dozens of
keyboard shortcuts added, they are now fully configurable in the workspace
settings and to always have a quick reference available, LibrePCB is now

> able to generate such a nice PDF on the fly:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
able to generate a nice shortcut reference PDF on the fly:
```

it is machine-readable, but can also be opened in a standard Gerber viewer
to see a human-readable assembly plan:

[![Gerber X3](/img/gerber_x3_viewer.png)](/img/gerber_x3_viewer.png)

Some assembly houses already support this format, so it might be good to know
that LibrePCB is now able to generate such files. Unfortunately we don't have a
real part number management yet, but in the mean time you can (optionally)
specify the corresponding information manually in the schematic editor by
adding custom attributes named `MANUFACTURER` and `MPN` to the components.
These attributes will then be respected by the Gerber X3 export.

---

### Changelog

#### Control Panel:

- Allow to hide/dismiss message banners
  ([#1036](https://github.com/LibrePCB/LibrePCB/pull/1036))
- Remove recommendation about licenses when creating a new project
  ([#1033](https://github.com/LibrePCB/LibrePCB/pull/1033))
- Fix UX flaws due to blocking UI when opening project
  ([#958](https://github.com/LibrePCB/LibrePCB/pull/958))

#### Library Editor:

- Add EAGLE library import wizard
  ([#936](https://github.com/LibrePCB/LibrePCB/pull/936))
- Add dedicated tool for drawing arcs

>   ([#1011](https://github.com/LibrePCB/LibrePCB/pull/1011))

Reviewer: In my opinion this one could have a dedicated highlight section as well, it's a huge UX improvement 🙂

Author: Hmm I'm not sure, drawing arcs was already possible before, and arcs are not needed that often so IMO it's not worth to mention it as a 6th highlight (if there were only3 highlights yet, I'd add it). But thanks for the feedback about the feature :smiley:

Reviewer: Sure, feel free to ignore the suggestion, the choice of highlights is always a personal thing 🙂

Author: > And for board outlines as well.

The arc feature is still not available in the board editor yet, and it can draw just single arc segments, so it wouldn't be useful for board outlines anyway. For board outlines, there's still the idea to provide a completely different tool to modify *existing* polygons to make corners rounded.

More reasons why it's not (yet) that noteworthy :see_no_evil:

Reviewer: Aaah true 😂
